CREATE TABLE film (
filmID int(4) NOT NULL,
title varchar(50),
short_desc varchar(100),
description varchar(400),
price decimal(5,2),
PRIMARY KEY (filmID)
);
CREATE TABLE genre (
genreID int(4) NOT NULL,
genre_name varchar(20),
PRIMARY KEY (genreID)
);
INSERT INTO film VALUES
(1, 'The Shawshank Redemption', 'Imprisoned men find redemption through acts of common decency',"Andy Dufresne (Tim Robbins) is sentenced to two consecutive life terms in prison for the murders of his wife and her lover and is sentenced to a tough prison. However, only Andy knows he didn't commit the crimes. While there, he forms a friendship with Red (Morgan Freeman), experiences brutality of prison life, adapts, helps the warden, etc., all in 19 years.", 4.99),
(2, 'The Godfather', 'A crime dynasty is passed down to a son', "Widely regarded as one of the greatest films of all time, this mob drama, based on Mario Puzo's novel of the same name, focuses on the powerful Italian-American crime family of Don Vito Corleone (Marlon Brando). When the don's youngest son, Michael (Al Pacino), reluctantly joins the Mafia, he becomes involved in the inevitable cycle of violence and betrayal. Although Michael tries to maintain a normal relationship with his wife, Kay (Diane Keaton), he is drawn deeper into the family business.", 2.99),
(3, 'The Dark Knight', 'Batman faces the greatest psychological test', "With the help of allies Lt. Jim Gordon (Gary Oldman) and DA Harvey Dent (Aaron Eckhart), Batman (Christian Bale) has been able to keep a tight lid on crime in Gotham City. But when a vile young criminal calling himself the Joker (Heath Ledger) suddenly throws the town into chaos, the caped Crusader begins to tread a fine line between heroism and vigilantism.", 4.99),
(4, '12 Angry Men', 'A jury holdout attempts the others to reconsider evidence', "Following the closing arguments in a murder trial, the 12 members of the jury must deliberate, with a guilty verdict meaning death for the accused, an inner-city teen. As the dozen men try to reach a unanimous decision while sequestered in a room, one juror (Henry Fonda) casts considerable doubt on elements of the case. Personal issues soon rise to the surface, and conflict threatens to derail the delicate process that will decide one boy's fate.", 3.99),
(5, "Schindler's List", 'A man becomes worried for his Jewish workforce', "Businessman Oskar Schindler (Liam Neeson) arrives in Krakow in 1939, ready to make his fortune from World War II, which has just started. After joining the Nazi party primarily for political expediency, he staffs his factory with Jewish workers for similarly pragmatic reasons. When the SS begins exterminating Jews in the Krakow ghetto, Schindler arranges to have his workers protected to keep his factory in operation, but soon realizes that in so doing, he is also saving innocent lives.", 2.99),
(6, 'Pulp Fiction', 'Four tales of violence are intertwined', "Vincent Vega (John Travolta) and Jules Winnfield (Samuel L. Jackson) are hitmen with a penchant for philosophical discussions. In this ultra-hip, multi-strand crime movie, their storyline is interwoven with those of their boss, gangster Marsellus Wallace (Ving Rhames) ; his actress wife, Mia (Uma Thurman) ; struggling boxer Butch Coolidge (Bruce Willis) ; master fixer Winston Wolfe (Harvey Keitel) and a nervous pair of armed robbers, \"Pumpkin\" (Tim Roth) and \"Honey Bunny\" (Amanda Plummer).", 3.99),
(7, 'Fight Club', 'An underground fight club evolves into much more', "A depressed man (Edward Norton) suffering from insomnia meets a strange soap salesman named Tyler Durden (Brad Pitt) and soon finds himself living in his squalid house after his perfect apartment is destroyed. The two bored men form an underground club with strict rules and fight other men who are fed up with their mundane lives. Their perfect partnership frays when Marla (Helena Bonham Carter), a fellow support group crasher, attracts Tyler's attention.", 2.99),
(8, 'Forrest Gump', 'A man witnesses historic moments while searching for love', "Slow-witted Forrest Gump (Tom Hanks) has never thought of himself as disadvantaged, and thanks to his supportive mother (Sally Field), he leads anything but a restricted life. Whether dominating on the gridiron as a college football star, fighting in Vietnam or captaining a shrimp boat, Forrest inspires people with his childlike optimism. But one person Forrest cares about most may be the most difficult to save -- his childhood love, the sweet but troubled Jenny (Robin Wright).", 2.99),
(9, 'Inception', 'A theif steal secrets by entering people\'s dreams', "Dom Cobb (Leonardo DiCaprio) is a thief with the rare ability to enter people's dreams and steal their secrets from their subconscious. His skill has made him a hot commodity in the world of corporate espionage but has also cost him everything he loves. Cobb gets a chance at redemption when he is offered a seemingly impossible task: Plant an idea in someone's mind. If he succeeds, it will be the perfect crime, but a dangerous enemy anticipates Cobb's every move.", 3.99),
(10, 'Goodfellas', 'A group works their way up a mob hierarchy', "A young man grows up in the mob and works very hard to advance himself through the ranks. He enjoys his life of money and luxury, but is oblivious to the horror that he causes. A drug addiction and a few mistakes ultimately unravel his climb to the top. Based on the book \"Wiseguy\" by Nicholas Pileggi.", 4.99),
(11, 'The Matrix', 'A hacker learns his true nature and role', "Neo (Keanu Reeves) believes that Morpheus (Laurence Fishburne), an elusive figure considered to be the most dangerous man alive, can answer his question -- What is the Matrix? Neo is contacted by Trinity (Carrie-Anne Moss), a beautiful stranger who leads him into an underworld where he meets Morpheus. They fight a brutal battle for their lives against a cadre of viciously intelligent secret agents. It is a truth that could cost Neo something more precious than his life.", 4.99),
(12, 'Seven Samurai', 'A vilalge recruits samurai to help defend themselves', "A samurai answers a village's request for protection after he falls on hard times. The town needs protection from bandits, so the samurai gathers six others to help him teach the people how to defend themselves, and the villagers provide the soldiers with food. A giant battle occurs when 40 bandits attack the village.", 3.99),
(13, 'City of God', 'Two boys take different paths after growing up in the same neighborhood', "In the poverty-stricken favelas of Rio de Janeiro in the 1970s, two young men choose different paths. Rocket (Alexandre Rodrigues) is a budding photographer who documents the increasing drug-related violence of his neighborhood. José \"Zé\" Pequeno (Leandro Firmino da Hora) is an ambitious drug dealer who uses Rocket and his photos as a way to increase his fame as a turf war erupts with his rival, \"Knockout Ned\" (Seu Jorge). The film was shot on location in Rio's poorest neighborhoods.", 2.99),
(14, 'Se7en', 'Detectives hunt a killer who uses the seven deadly sins', "When retiring police Detective William Somerset (Morgan Freeman) tackles a final case with the aid of newly transferred David Mills (Brad Pitt), they discover a number of elaborate and grizzly murders. They soon realize they are dealing with a serial killer (Kevin Spacey) who is targeting people he thinks represent one of the seven deadly sins. Somerset also befriends Mills' wife, Tracy (Gwyneth Paltrow), who is pregnant and afraid to raise her child in the crime-riddled city.", 4.99),
(15, 'The Silence of the Lambs', 'An FBI agent needs the help of a killer to catch another', "Jodie Foster stars as Clarice Starling, a top student at the FBI's training academy. Jack Crawford (Scott Glenn) wants Clarice to interview Dr. Hannibal Lecter (Anthony Hopkins), a brilliant psychiatrist who is also a violent psychopath, serving life behind bars for various acts of murder and cannibalism. Crawford believes that Lecter may have insight into a case and that Starling, as an attractive young woman, may be just the bait to draw him out.", 3.99),
(16, "It's a Wonderful Life", 'A man is shown what life would be like if he never existed', "After George Bailey (James Stewart) wishes he had never been born, an angel (Henry Travers) is sent to earth to make George's wish come true. George starts to realize how many lives he has changed and impacted, and how they would be different if he was never there.", 9.99),
(17, 'The Usual Suspects', 'A random police lineup leads to a horrific gun battle', "\"The greatest trick the devil ever pulled was convincing the world he didn't exist,\" says con man Kint (Kevin Spacey), drawing a comparison to the most enigmatic criminal of all time, Keyser Soze. Kint attempts to convince the feds that the mythic crime lord not only exists, but is also responsible for drawing Kint and his four partners into a multi-million dollar heist that ended with an explosion in San Pedro Harbor - leaving few survivors.", 2.99),
(18, 'Life is Beautiful', 'A Holocaust victim must protect his son', "A gentle Jewish-Italian waiter, Guido Orefice (Roberto Benigni), meets Dora (Nicoletta Braschi), a pretty schoolteacher, and wins her over with his charm and humor. Eventually they marry and have a son, Giosue (Giorgio Cantarini). Their happiness is abruptly halted, however, when Guido and Giosue are separated from Dora and taken to a concentration camp. Determined to shelter his son from the horrors of his surroundings, Guido convinces Giosue that their time in the camp is merely a game.", 2.99);
INSERT INTO genre VALUES
(1, 'Drama'),
(2, 'Action'),
(3, 'Biography'),
(4, 'Comedy'),
(5, 'Sci-Fi'),
(6, 'Mystery'),
(7, 'Thriller'),
(8, 'Fantasy');
CREATE TABLE film_genre (
filmID int(4) NOT NULL,
genreID int(4) NOT NULL,
FOREIGN KEY (filmID) REFERENCES film(filmID),
FOREIGN KEY (genreID) REFERENCES genre(genreID)
);
INSERT INTO film_genre VALUES
(1, 1),
(2, 1),
(3, 2),
(4, 1),
(5, 3),
(6, 1),
(7, 1),
(8, 4),
(9, 5),
(10, 3),
(11, 5),
(12, 2),
(13, 1),
(14, 6),
(15, 7),
(16, 8),
(17, 6),
(18, 4);